Aladdin is one of my favorite films: it's
a beautifully animated, well-crafted
musical that focuses on the eponymous
Aladdin, who like a lot of Disney
protagonists is an orphan, however what's
curious is that although we know about
his father, we hardly know anything about
his mother so who was Aladdin's mother
and what happened to her? The first time that
we really learn anything about Aladdin's
mother is in third film of the franchise
Aladdin and the King of Thieves
where we meet Aladdin's father Cassim,
who tells him that she died when Aladdin
was a kid sometime after Cassim had left
his family to form the Forty Thieves.
However, in the Disney comic series released from
1994 to 1995, he meets a young version of
his mother in the past after a
time-traveling adventure. At the end of
which he never realizes that the woman
he met Zena is his mom, who originally
was going to be a character in the first
film. where she was portrayed as a stout
woman that would have played a big role
in the story. In earlier versions of the
script, she was going to be what drove
Aladdin into going into the Cave of
Wonders because in that version of the
script she would have been a poor,
hard-working rug maker who would send
Aladdin to sell a rug only for him to
get swindled and come back with nothing
and with little else to sell she would
have been forced to sell her engagement
ring and this would lead up to a fight
with Aladdin getting scolded by his
mother and he would go out to reclaim
the ring during which he would sing a
song that was eventually cut from the film:
Proud of Your Boy
and the sequence with the song would have followed Aladdin as he travels around Agrabah and makes a
promise to his mother and to himself to
be a better so
and the power of the Genie's lamp would have been the perfect way for Aladdin to fulfill that promise
and give her all that she could want: the
perfect life, the perfect home, and the
perfect son that she never had although
this would have been a point of conflict
between the two of them as she would
have been there when Aladdin makes his
wish to be a prince as well as in a
scene criticizing his decision to
mislead Princess Jasmine. A scene which
in the final cut of the film had the
Genie doing the criticizing. It's a shame
that all these great ideas and the song
were cut they would have added more
heart to the story and depth to
Aladdin's character. I mean a major theme
of Aladdin is this idea of wanting more
more respect, more freedom, to be more and
to be recognized for who you are and not
what you are and "Proud of Your Boy" not
only fits in perfectly with this
theme, it gives us insight into
Aladdin as a person it speaks to his
anxieties and although in the final cut
of the film we do have the "One Jump (Reprise)"
which fulfills a similar role it
doesn't have the same gravitas
even though the song and Aladdin's mother
were never in the official theatrical
release, these ideas retro actively
elevate Aladdin in my eyes
it makes me appreciate the character,
the story, and the movie as a whole
it's not just a fun little film for
kids with great production values
it's a film with an empathetic protagonist that
understands what that protagonist feels
and when I take into consideration all
of these things: the things that were cut
the things that were included, the things
that, well, never were
It makes me realize why story like Aladdin is so timeless
With that said, thank you so much for watching.
If you enjoyed the video leave a like down below
subscribe to get updated on my latest uploads and let
me know what you think about Aladdin's mom and
the things they could have done with the
film, until next time